All right.
So let's move one step closer to dynamic pagination.
The way that we're going to enable pagination is using query params.
We're going to add a key value pair to the end of the URL of the jobs results page that's going to tell
us what page the user is on.
And when they're on a given page, we're going to use that number to select a subset of ten jobs from
our jobs array.
So let me show you how this is going to work.
The first thing I'd like to do is in my display jobs computed property, and the only reason I'm doing
it here is because it's probably the best place to do it, because it's just some kind of method that
we can use.
I just want to console.log the value of this dot root.
As a reminder, when we added Vue router, Vue router went through every component and it gave us access
to this root object.
I just want to show you what it looks like in the browser as a review.
So if I go back to my browser, here is what that object looks like right here, and you'll notice that
it has this query object and that query object is going to hold any query params that I provide in the
URL.
So for example, if I reload this page and I add a query pram at the end and the way that I can do that
is by putting a question mark and then my key value pairs.
So let's call our key page since that represents the page that the user is going to be on.
And then I provide a value with an equal sign.
So let's say the user's going to be on page three.
So I'll do page equals three and I'll execute this and we'll get this new root object.
You'll notice in this round object we're going to have that query property and that's going to have
all of those key value pairs.
So because we called our key page, we're going to see the value page right here and its corresponding
value is three.
Notice that that comes in as a string because this is all text when it comes to the browser and view
interpreting it.
But we still have the value we need.
If we know that we are on page three, then we know we need the third batch of ten jobs, right?
So we can use that logic in the computed property to calculate which batch of ten we want to display
to the user.
So let me show you how that's going to work.
We're going to transition back to this code.
And let's remove this line since we no longer need it.
And here's what our code is going to look like.
Let's first get that value from the query params so we know we have the root object on every view component.
We know that we have the query property on it, which gives me a nested object and I'm going to assume
that that query object is going to have a page property on it.
That page name will be up to us.
Now.
It is possible that the user will not have the page query params.
In that case this is going to evaluate to undefined.
So what I'd like to do is to provide a reasonable fallback value.
If the user does not provide query params, I probably want to show them the first batch of ten jobs.
So what I can do here is provide a fallback string using the OR operator and I'll provide a fallback
string of one.
So let me assigned this to a constant called page string and just reiterate what we're doing here.
We're going to try to access the page property on the query object, which we are going to assume is
going to be some kind of string representing the page, right?
A string of one, a string of two or a string of three, etc. The exact same thing we just saw in the
browser.
We're going to try to extract that.
If for some reason the page property doesn't exist on a query object, we're going to fall back to this
value because this will evaluate to undefined, which means JavaScript will take the value on the right
hand side and that's going to be a string of one.
So the end of the day, we're always going to have some kind of number here, either either one as a
fallback or whatever the user actually provides in the query params, one, two, three, etc..
All right.
So now I have a number as a string.
I want to get that a string as a actual number.
So in order to do that, I'll create a constant called page number.
And in JavaScript I can invoke the pass int method on my number class or my number object and here I
can pass in my page string.
So now I have a number, I have something like the number two, let's say here.
All right.
Or the number one.
Okay.
So what do I want to do with that number?
Well, that number is going to represent the batch of jobs that I want to get.
If I'm on page one, I want the first ten jobs.
If I'm on page two, I want the second batch of ten jobs.
So jobs ten through 20.
If I'm on page three, I want the third batch of jobs and so on.
And in order to do that, of course, we're still going to need to use the slice method.
We're going to need to calculate the dynamic starting index and the dynamic ending index.
So let me show you the formulas we're going to do for that.
I'm just going to create two constants called First Job Index and last job index.
So the first one is going to be first job index.
And here's going to be the formula for finding the starting index.
I'm going to take my page number.
I'm going to subtract one and I'm going to multiply that by ten.
Now, make sure you wrap this in parentheses, because we want this operation to take place first before
the multiplication.
So let me give you an example of how this is going to work.
We're always going to start in at least page one.
If we start on page one, then it's going to be one minus one, which is going to value it two zero
times ten, which is still zero.
So we're going to start on index position zero.
So the first job in the original array.
Conversely, let's say we're on page number two.
If we're in page number two.
Two minus one is going to be one.
One times ten is going to be ten.
So our first job index is going to be ten.
Right.
Which represents the technically the 11th item in the array, but the 11th job in the array is what
we do want to display on page number two.
Right.
Because the first ten jobs are on page one.
The 11th job starts on page two.
And this logic will continue all the way to the end.
All right.
Now, what about.
Our last job index for a given page.
That's just going to be page number, times ten.
So for on page one, for example, then our last job index is going to be one times ten, which is ten,
which is exactly what we want is going to be starting an index zero and going all the way up to index
ten, which means we're going to have the first ten jobs.
If we're on page number two, then this is going to be starting an index ten page two means page number
of two times ten, meaning the last job index is 20.
So we're going to go from jobs ten through 2010.
Up two, but not including 20.
Gives me the next batch of ten jobs.
Same thing with page number three.
That's going to be starting at index 20 and proceeding to index 30, etc..
So we're always going to have a subset of two or ten jobs in between these two index values if we use
these formulas.
So now that I have that logic calculated, of course what we can do is we can pass those two indexes
to our slice method.
So I'm going to start pulling out my first array element and my first job index, and then I'm going
to go up to but not include my last job index.
And this, again, as a reminder, will be just ten jobs.
All right.
So let's go to the browser and let's make sure everything is working so right here if I refresh the
page.
And I scroll down.
We do still have.
Ten jobs.
We are, in fact, on page three.
So let me remove this.
Let me remove the query parameter entirely and just go to slash job slash results.
We're going to get first the first ten jobs.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
That looks good.
Now, notice that if I go to page equals one, I provide the exact same query params.
Nothing is going to change because we're still going to get the same batch of ten, right?
Because we're passing one and we're doing that formula to calculate the first ten jobs.
But now notice if I provide page equals two, immediately the jobs change, right?
So we calculate the new starting index of ten, the new ending index of 20.
We slice using the computed property a different batch of ten jobs from our original hundred job array.
And now we get a different batch of ten jobs on page two.
So by scroll down, this will be another pair of ten jobs.
And if I, for example, go to page six, so page equals six, it's going to be its own set of ten jobs.
We can see the titles change right here.
Here's page five, here's page four, etc..
So things are looking pretty good.
We are of course navigating manually using the URL and we want to give the user a button to do that
in our app.
But this moves us in a really good direction.
It's a nice, good step that we took to enable pagination.
Now we just have to give the user the interface to interact with these automatic URLs.
So we're going to generate them for the user and have them navigate from page to page by simply swapping
that query param at the end of our core root of slash jobs slash results.
So lots of good progress in this lesson and I will see you in the next one.